# Formação em AI Engineering - Indicium

Formação em AI Engineering is a final project from the course with the same name, created by Indicium, in the training and qualification on the subject of AI Engineering.

The final objective revolves around the use of AI to create a report about SARS trends, metrics and news.

## Quick Start

**Prerequisites:** Install [UV](https://github.com/astral-sh/uv) should be installed. You can install it with:
```bash
curl -LsSf https://astral.sh/uv/install.sh | sh
```

**Setup:**
```bash

# 1. Create virtual environment and install dependencies
uv venv
uv sync

# 2. Add your API keys to .env

# 3. Add database file to data/ directory
# (Download from Open DATASUS)

# 5. (Optional) Set up Langfuse
# You can run it online or locally, following this guide:
# https://langfuse.com/self-hosting/deployment/docker-compose

# 5. Run the application (from the root folder)
python ./scripts/run_report_maker.py
Recommendation: Select option 3 (to be able to write your prompt), and input "Create full report" for full report creation.
```


---

## Context

Indicium HealthCare Inc. is interested in creating a data-driven solution that can help healthcare professionals gain a real-time understanding of the severity and progression of disease outbreaks. To this end, they will conduct a Proof of Concept (PoC) to assess the feasibility of such a solution, and you have been hired as the analyst responsible for developing it.

For the PoC, the chosen solution will provide metrics through a report generated by an agent capable of querying the database and retrieving metric values. Furthermore, using other tools, this agent should consult real-time news about Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome (SARS) to support the presented metrics and provide explanations/comments on the reported scenario. The real dataset on SARS hospitalizations available in Open DATASUS will be used.

The metrics that should be included in the report are:
- rate of increase in cases
- mortality rate
- ICU occupancy rate
- population vaccination rate

In addition to the metrics mentioned, the report should include two graphs, one representing the daily number of cases over the last 30 days and another showing the monthly number of cases over the last 12 months.

## Data description

The data, data dictionary, and other information can be obtained from the Open DATASUS website. The data is in a CSV file containing approximately 100 columns and 165,000 rows. Because this is real data, there are many issues with incorrect data entry and missing data. Therefore, you should select the columns you deem relevant and apply the necessary adjustments.
